Welcome back everyone to Part Five of this text Generation series of lectures and partners.
Number five we're gonna be showing you and talking about training the model.
We're gonna quickly show you an example of how to train the model but more importantly since this model
has over three million parameters and it essentially requires a GP to train in a reasonable amount of
time.
We'll show you how to load our provided saved model file.
We're also going to do is just to make sure everything is running correctly that will run the model
without it being train.
And we should expect just to see random characters show up.
Let's head to notebook and see this all in action.
All right.
So here I am at my notebook and the main thing to notice right now is when we call our models summary
in the previous set of lectures we're dealing with over three million parameters.
And because this is a recurring neural network with over three million parameters we really need a GP
to train this.
So in case you don't have a GP you locally especially since you require an in video card and a correct
installation of CUDA what I'd highly recommend is uploading this notebook to Google collab.
So I'm filming this right now on a laptop that doesn't actually have a GP.
So I'm going to come to Google collab and quickly show you how you could upload this notebook along
the text data set.
So just google search Google collab click on collab that research that Google dot com opened it up and
it will come off a new notebook.
And then what we can do here is we can say file upload a notebook and you may need to sign into Google.
That's OK.
Go ahead and just sign in if your Google account and then once you're signed then you should be able
to then say file upload notebook and then choose a file.
I'm going to choose the Untitled notebook that we've been working with.
So go ahead and click choose file and then underneath right here in LP and text data I have my untitled
notebook.
If you want you can also upload our actual notebook that we provide for you.
And continue with the lecture we've been leaving off.
So I have this entitled one.
I'll go ahead and open it up and upload it a fast forward so let's done OK.
And we can see the entire notebook being uploaded.
And here we can see everything that we've been doing so far.
The last thing I need to upload is the actual text data set since Shakespeare that text isn't actually
part of Google collab.
So we're gonna expand on this right here and then click on files and in order to upload files and you
connect to a runtime.
So in case it hasn't already.
Look at the top right.
And make sure it's connected to a runtime.
And then once that's done you can hit upload here and then upload this Shakespeare text file.
So it's just called Shakespeare.
Do not upload the start H5 that's actually the model file that we're using.
If you want you can upload it as well in case you want to load the model.
But if you're strictly just going to train Shakespeare is the actual text file.
Shakespeare Gen H5.
That's the model file.
I'll go ahead with both of them since we will use both of them eventually.
So go and open that and then I'll remind you that they'll get deleted once this run times over.
That's OK.
And then we can see here they're uploading going to go ahead and fast forward time until that's all
done uploading.
All right.
Now that those files are uploaded have the text as well as the trained model which we're going to load
up later on.
We'll go ahead and close this and what we'll do is to make sure we're using a tensor flow to later on
this is going to be the default.
But let me zoom in here so you can see these commands clearly what we're going to do here is we're going
to say per cent sine tensor flow version space two point X and then once we do that we're just going
to hit runtime run all.
So that will set tensor flow as version 2.0 and then once that's ready to go it'll read in the file
and do all the encoding and decoding commands that we did before.
So we should be able to then scroll down all the way to the bottom of this notebook.
If you've been following along and you'll see the model summary pop up so again we're dealing with more
than three million parameters which definitely means we need GPA.
So make sure you confirm that you're running on GPA as shown in the original setup lecture for Google
collab.
But we're gonna do now is we'll go ahead and make sure everything is okay before we actually train our
model by saying uh by recklessly running an input batch.
So we'll say for input underscore example underscore batch comma target example batch in data set and
then we're going to take one from this dataset and I'm going to zoom out just one level.
So these icons don't take up too much so we're gonna do is we're gonna run through an example batch
just one simple batch and then we're gonna pass it into our model.
So that means the example batch predictions is going to be equal to the model.
And so we're going to input the example batch so the input example batch recall that the input example
batch that is the original sequence the target example batch is that sequence shifted one character
forward.
So right now if I even training the model I'm passing in an example input batch seeing what the model
predicts if the initialization are truly random then it should just be a bunch of random characters
that it predicts should be the sequence one timestamp to the future.
So we go ahead and run that and then once that is finished running what I'm going to do is I'm going
to check with those example batch predictions actually look like we'll say example batch predictions
let's first check the shape of this so the shape is 120 by 128 by eighty four.
And this is the batch size.
So 128 is this batch size that we chose earlier.
So the 120 is the sequence length of the batch 120 characters and then eighty four is the vocab size.
So then let's go ahead and grab the very first of these predictions by saying index zero and you'll
notice it's essentially a bunch of probability.
So these are the probabilities that it assumes for each concurrent character.
So what we can do here is the following We can say using some tensor flow commands TFR random the categorical
and it takes in those logics which essentially just a term for the log odds or logarithmic probability
here and then we're going to say just a number of samples to Gram is one so we'll just do that because
I just want a single sample so say sampled indices is going to grab from that probability distribution
and then we'll say we make a couple more cells here underneath here will say sampled indices and if
we check out what that looks like it's essentially the actual indices of the characters it thinks it
should be predicting and in order to pass in this sort of shaped array into our index to character sequence
we're going to do here is the following we'll say sample indices is then equal to TFT squeeze
and then we'll pass in sample indices access is equal to negative 1 num pi net essentially reshapes
it.
So now it's going to look like this which is exactly the format we wanted in.
So I can pass it into this index to character array so go ahead pass it to the index the character a
and running that gets you a bunch of random characters.
So this is essentially its prediction and is just a bunch of random characters which makes sense because
the model hasn't been trained at all.
So if you wanted to train the model what you would do is simply say the following you would choose some
number of epochs and I would highly recommend that at least 30 epochs to get realistic results on this
particular model.
So you you'd specify some number of epochs such as 30 and then simply say model that fit to the data
set object we made earlier where epochs is equal to the number of epochs specified run that and then
it will begin fitting your model.
So in our case I'm going to go ahead and interrupt this training because this might take a really long
time to run in my experience.
It took about somewhere between 1 to 2 minutes per epoch.
So it's running a little bit faster right now but it will take some time especially for such a large
model.
So what I'm going to do here is simply say run time interrupt execution so actually interrupt the training
of this and then you'll see that keyboard interrupt pop up.
That's OK.
If you want you can kind of sit around wait for it to train.
If you're really interested in that though we're gonna do is we're actually going to load up the model
so we can do that by saying from tensor flow dark hair stop models import load model and in order to
load the model make sure you upload it already this Shakespeare Gen the H5 file.
So that's our model.
So in part 6 We're going to do is we'll finish off this lecture by actually loading up the model we're
going to do it in a specific way just to load the model weights first and then build it to a different
batch shape.
So we'll show that all in the very next lecture so coming up next we'll show you how to load the model
in a very specific manner.
I'll see you there.